---
layout: post
title:  "SSH Login"
date:   2014-07-22 12:04:29
categories: Recipe
---

### How to connect to a remote Linux machine via SSH

> *It is common practice to connect to remote Linux machines using the command line. This is very useful in the context of server administration and high perfomance computing. X11 forwarding can be enabled for remote tasks that require a graphical user interface.* 

## Outline 

* Open a terminal client
* Establish an SSH connection
* Optional: Setup X11 forwarding

## Requirements

* Remote host address
* Account on remote machine

## Jargon

Link to Jargon page with terms: SSH, SSH client, remote host/machine, X11, X11 forwarding, high performance computing, server, server administration

## Open a terminal client

The method you use to create an SSH connection depends on your operating system.

# Windows

Windows doesn't have a native SSH client. We recommend downloading MobaXterm. MobaXterm provides all the basic tools for remote computing on Windows. 

Note: If you are unable to install software on your computer, choose the *executable* version.

1. Start MobaXterm
2. Enter the following into the MobaXterm command line. Replace user and remote.host with your user account on the remote machine and address of the remote host

{% highlight bash %}
ssh user@remote.host
{% endhighlight %}

3. Enter your remote account password if prompted
4. You should now be logged in!

# Mac OS / Linux

1. Open the 'Terminal' program.
2. Enter the following into the MobaXterm command line. Replace user and remote.host with your user account on the remote machine and address of the remote host

{% highlight bash %}
ssh user@remote.host
{% endhighlight %}

3. Enter your remote account password if prompted
4. You should now be logged in!

## Establish an SSH connection

blah blah

## Optional: Setup X11 forwarding

blash blah



