Instructions for writing instructions
=====================================

The meta-level guide to writing 2min recipes. This guide is intended to help
producers of recipes or instructions structure thier information. A basic 
recipe should answer a single question.

The recipes we create should be specific examples, that (as much as possible)
if followed to the letter, should accomplish a specific task. (They are 
concrete, instance orientated - not system or principle orientated).

The following ideas are extracted from the academic literature on the cognitive
and ergonomic factors for writing and following instructions...

- Recipes are _task based_. The title of the recipe should correspond to the
precise task it describes. The heading refers to a fixed goal the reader has in
mind when looking for a recipe. e.g. 'Loading data in .csv format into a MySQL 
database'.

- Describe any relevant information about the end product of the recipe first -
this facilitates comprehension and execution by giving us the right mental 
model to begin with. e.g. "You are going to draw a house. Draw a rectange with
a triangle above..."

- Use subheadings that fit the main heading and break the task into smaller 
subgoals - e.g. "Open a connection to MySQL". Subheadings are important to help
locate information when browsing, and locating info when moving between the 
instrutions and the task. (Explicit subgoals can also indirectly help learning,
as they often re-occur in different recipes/contexts).

- Break each goal/sub goal into single steps. Describe one action per step.

- Word order should mirror action order. e.g. don't write "switch on after 
releasing the red lever." Instead write "Release the red lever and switch on 
the device".

- In general, use words to describe actions, and pictures/diagrams/screenshots
to show locations. (describing locations with words can be awkward).

- Use and active rather than a passive voice, and the affirmative rather than
the passive. Use short sentences, often we start with verbs or adverbs e.g. 
"Put, If, Uncover, Turn clockwise, When...". Dont switch terminology within the
document. 

- Number steps and use a chronological, vertical organisation/sequence. 
This helps the reader keep their place as they move back and forth between task
and instructions. Explain any trouble spots in the procedure _before_ not 
after, even if we have to break the chronological order.

- Include feedback in the instructions, so the user knows what they should 
expect to see if the actions have been executed successfully.

- Ideally, recipes should fit on one or two A4 pages, should researchers prefer
to have hard copies for reference. The principle being all steps and 
information should fit on a one or two page open spread.




CC-BY Cameron McLean @cammerschooner 